- Now let us understand a few other important APIs
which are critical under the Servlet specification.
The first one among them is the ServletConfig API.
This is the one which is used to pass any kind
of configuration information to a particular servlet.
For example, let's say you're servlet wants
to register to a web service URL.
Or let's say it wants to register
itself to a weather service URL.
In that case, when you write out the code
the URL will be hard-coded into the servlet class.
But there's no need to hard-code
because it's not a good practice.
What we could do is, we could imbed this URL
information in the form of config init parameter.
These init parameters are typically defined in the
deployment descriptor, which is our webxml file.
And they're always defined under servlet element.
These parameters that we define are of course
in the form of a key and a value pair.
And they're always of the string type.
Once these parameters are defined in the
deployment descriptor, they can be retrieved inside
the servlet through the ServletConfig.
Which is exactly why we say that
ServletConfig passes the configuration
information to the servlet class.
For each servlet that you have in your application,
there is one ServletConfig object
created with respect to it.
So there's one ServletConfig instance per servlet class.
Let's quickly demo this feature out in our application.
We've got to guest servlet here.
And for the guest servlet, we are now
going to define some minor parameters.
Let's go to the web.xml and we have already
configured our servlet there by means of
the servlet and servlet mapping elements.
Now what we could do is, we could go
under the servlet tab and there
we would find an element called init-param.
Inside this, there are a couple of other tabs.
So line number eight is where I
started the init-param element.
And on line number nine, I'm going to write
a couple of other tags which come as
"children" under the init-param.
The first one is param-name.
Which is a logical name to the parameter
that you wish to give and it's completely your choice.
So let me say, it's called, "URL".
And the next element is the param-value.
So this could be the complete URL of weather service.
So let's say,
(typing)
www.weatherservice.com.
This is just a demo URL that I've imbed ed
as an information in line with parameter.
Now that we have defined inet-param in the web.xml
we could go to "GetServlet" and fetch that parameter.
And that is going to be done
with the help of ServletConfig API.
So on line number 18, I need to
get the ServletConfig off-checked first.
How do I get it? Let's take a reference.
(typing)
And inside the parent-which is the
HttpServlet class. There's an API which is available.
Which is called, "getServletConfig".
This is the one which will
get us that ServletConfig object.
Now what we need to do is, we need to sysout.
We just put a small sysout which is going
to fetch that parameter for us.
How? Take the reference and invoke an
API called, "getinit-parameter".
This will demand the name of that parameter.
So let's go to web.xml and quickly fetch
the name of the parameter from line number nine.
Let's come back to that servlet.
And I'm going to put it as an "argument" on line 21.
That is all that we have to do.
Now what I'm going to do is, I'm just going
to run this application
and access the getservletURL pattern.
And then we'll understand
whether it gets printed or not.
So I'm just going to see.
(typing)
- getServlet.
Once I do this...yes I got a response.
Now let's check our console and see
whether we got init-parameter correctly.
There we are.
So we are able to fetch the value of the
init-parameter and print it on the console.
Now you can use that init-parameter with a value
and consequently write the code
for connecting to that weather service.
So this is how ServletConfi API works.
Remember, that ServletConfig is one per servlet.
So every servlet will have its own ServletConfig object.
So this is how we added the init-parameter to web.xml.
However, if you want to do the same thing
with annotation, this is how it will work.
(typing)
This is your webservlet under which
you have the urlPatterns as one of the keys.
You can define the URL pattern for this.
Like this.
(typing)
After that, you can actually give out a comma
and go on to the next parameter which is init-params.
Now this is going to demand a WebinitParam annotation.
And this is in turn is going to have
a definition of the parameters. In the form of name.
So let's say the name we had was, "URL".
And then put a comma and say,
"value=(the complete URL)".
(typing)
So in case you need to define your init parameter
through annotations, this is how you'll go about it.